# neural_snake
This project is a test to learn more about neural networks. I have deliberately not used any libraries such as TensorFlow in order to reach a better understanding of the fundementals of neural networks. Creating the network of neurons and connections was quite tedious. I really understand the value of having a pre-defined system to take care of all that by now. But, on the other hand, the learning experience was really good.

1. The project contanins a snake game created with pygame. The grid size of the game can be set by the parameters X and Y.
2. A neural network always have a typology. Typology is a fancy word for describing the geometry of the network. In this project the first layer of nodes, the input layer, must be six, and the end node must be two. Otherwise we can experiment with whatever typology we want. 
For example, a typology input could be [6,12,2]. This would generate one "hidden layer" (again fancy talk for a layer of neurons that do not have direct input or output, hence the "hidden" term) with 12 neurons in it. In this particular exercise all neurons in later layers than the first(ie, 2 and forward), will have weighted connections to the prior layer.
3. When first initialized, 10 randomly weighted networks will be created. All networks will play the snake game and the four highest scoring ones will be directly moved to next round. Then different kinds of cross overs will take place the four winners, and the result will be ran in the next iteration as well. The four winners of that iteration will be taken out and the rest of the places will be ran in cross over mutations etc.
In the beginning of the file I have set a max_point_goal variable. The iteration will run headless until this score is reached. This is to save time. Running head-less takes fractions of the time than it would compared to running it with a GUI. Once the goal point is reaced, the gui will show.
There is an experimental feature in the beginning of the code called mutation rate. This is to set the rate of mutation when doing cross over between winners. As iteration goes by, the chance of mutation will reduce. A high number will result in a longer lasting high mutation chance.
